an array is an ordered collection of values
arrays inherit properties from Array.prototype, which defines a rich set of array manipulation methods

families collectively organized a neighborhood clean-up event.
arrays allow you to store multiple values in a single variable and come with a rich set of built-in methods
you prefer accessing items by their position

by far the simplest way to create an array is with an array literal, which is simply a comma-seperated list of array elements within square brackets.

tuples: greate for fixed sequence of different types (e.g. [string, number, boolean]).

best for complex logic where different types need to share specific behaviors.

this is a heterogeneous array containing a number, a boolean, and an object.

array literals can contain object literals or other array literals.

each chapter has a different theme and numerous subsections

There are several methods of creating arrays. I will introduce them in descending order of popularity.
I'll list them from the most to least popular.
There are various ways to instantiate arrays. I'll cover them starting with the most common approaches.

The organization aimed to instantiate positive impact through community projects.

you don't work through a reference book from start to finish, you use it for reference.

Array literals are comma-separated lists of elements enclosed in square brackets.
collections of elements wrapped in square brackets.

An array with a length of zero.
The container exists but has no items.

All elements are strings.
Arrays usually store values of the same type.

The array contains only numeric values. The array is composed entirely of numbers.

Array elements for which values are omitted do not exist but appear to be undefined if you query them.

This array contains a hole (an empty slot), not undefined.
JavaScript treats missing elements differently from values that exist but are undefined.

It is as if the ...a was replaced by the elements of the array a

You can use a spread operator to turn any string into an array of single-character strings.
let original = [1,2,3];
An easy way to remove duplicate elements from an array is to convert the array to a set and then immediately convert the set back to an array using the spread operator.

Using the spread operator is essentially like taking a bag of items and dumping them out individually into a new container.

The spread operator can turn an array of numbers into individual arguments for a function.

Is also incredibly useful for shallow-cloning or updating specific properties without mutating original data.

The spread operator lets you include the elements of an array inside another array and easily create a shallow copy of an array.

If you change a primitive value (like an number) in the copy, the original stays the same. But if you change a property in a nested object, both will reflect the change.

Change a top-level element does not affect the original.

If you're curious about shallow copying, I'll cover it in a future post.
If you're curious about shallow copying, I'll write a dedicated post about it.

This Array() constructor can be used to preallocate an array when you know in advance how many elements will be required.

Another way to create an array is with the `Array()` constructor. You can invoke this constructor in three distinct ways.

The government must address a problem of homelessness in our city.
